# vanmeter_gsh_mixtures repository
Van Meter RJ, Glinski DA, Purucker ST, Henderson WM. Induced hepatic glutathione and metabolomic alterations following mixed pesticide and fertilizer exposures in juvenile leopard frogs (Lithobates sphenocephala)

https://setac.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1002/etc.5245

Abstract: The increasing use of agrochemicals, alone and in combination, has been implicated as a potential causative factor in the decline of amphibians worldwide.  Due to the desire to decrease cost and resources coupled with the increasing demand for providing food for a growing population, fertilizers and pesticides are frequently combined in single-use tank mixtures.  Limited data is available on the effects of increased nitrogen levels in non-target species and thus, it is acknowledged that investigating the alterations in the nitrogen cycle and its impacts on amphibians needs to be considered in best management practices going forward.  The objective of the current study is to elucidate the impact of fertilizer (urea; N) and herbicide (atrazine; Z and/or alachlor; L) tank mixtures on the hepatic metabolome of juvenile leopard frogs as well as investigate alterations in oxidative stress by relating these changes to glutathione (GSH) levels.  Herbicide exposure only moderately increased this parameter in amphibians, however, urea alone and in combination with either Z or L statistically elevated GSH levels.  Interestingly, urea also inhibited pesticide uptake as calculated bioconcentration factors were greatly decreased for Z and L when N was present in the exposure mixture.  Metabolomic profiling identified fluxes in hepatic metabolites that are involved in glutathione and carbohydrate metabolic processes as well as altered intermediates in the urea cycle.  Ultimately, understanding the biological impacts of nitrogenous fertilizers alone and in combination with pesticide exposure will inform best management practices to conserve declining amphibian populations worldwide.

